# Operators

## Terms: "unary", "binary", "operand"

- __An operand__ - is what operators are applied to. Sometimes, people call these "arguments" instead of "operands".

- __unary__ - An operator has a single operand.

- __binary__ - An operator has two operands.

## String concatenation, binary +

Usually, the plus operator `+` sums numbers.

But, if the binary `+` is applied to strings, it merges (concatenates) them:
```js
let s = "my" + "string";
alert(s); // mystring
```

If either operand is a string, the other one is converted into a string as well.

This operations run from left to right. If there are two numbers followed by a string, the numbers will be added before being converted to a string.

```js
alert(2 + 2 + '1'); // "41"
```

String concatenation and conversion is a special feature of the binary plus `+`. Other arithmetic operators work only with numbers and always convert their operands to numbers.

```js
alert(2 - '1'); // 1
alert('6' / '2'); //3
alert('2019-09-09' - 1); // NaN
```

## Numeric conversion, unary +

When use `+` as unary form, It will occur two performance. If the operand is number, the operator will do nothing, if the operand is not a number, the unary `+` will convert it into a number.

## Operator precedence

In order to ensure the expression result, use parentheses. Parentheses override any precedence.

If the precedence is the same, it will excute from left to right.

You don't need to remember any precedence, just remember unary operators are higher than binary ones. [Here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/JavaScript/Reference/operators/operator_precedence) is the detail of precedence table.

## Assignment

### The assignment operator "=" returns a value

An operator always returns a value. The assignment operator follows this rule too.See the next code.

```js
let a = b = c = 3;

// is equal to 

let a = (b = (c = 3));
```

Also see,
```js
let a = 1;
let b = 2;
let c = 3 - (a = b + 1); // a == 3, c == 3
```

## Remainder %

```js
5 % 2; // 1
```

## Exponentiation **

```js
2 ** 2; // 4
2 ** 3; // 8

4 ** (1/2); // 2
8 ** (1/3); // 2

8 ** 1/3; // 2.6666666666666665
(8 ** 1) / 3; // 2.6666666666666665
```

## Increment/decrement

- __Increment__ `++`
```js
let counter = 2;
counter++; // 3
```

- __Decrement__ `--`
```js
let counter = 2;
counter--; // 1
```

__PS: Increment/decrement can only be applied to variables.__

### `Postfix form` and `Prefix form`
```js
let counter = 1;
++counter; // 2
counter++; // 3
let a = ++counter; // 4
let b = counter++; // 4
alert(counter); // 5
```

## Bitwise operators

[Here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Bitwise_Operators) is the detail of Bitwise Operators.

The list of operators:
-  AND (`&`)
- OR (`|`)
- XOR (`^`)
- NOT (`~`)
- LEFT SHIFT (`<<`)
- RIGHT SHIFT (`>>`)
- ZERO-FILL RIGHT SHIFT (`>>>`)

## Modify-in-place

`+=`, `-=`, `*=`, `/=`

## Comma

Notice some examples.
```js
let a = (1 + 2, 3 + 4); // 7

let a = 1 + 2, 3 + 4; // 3


for (a = 1, b = 3, c = a * b; a < 10; a++) {
  ...
}
```

