# Objects

__Craete a object__
```js
let user = new Object();
let user = {};
```

## Literals and properties

To remove a property, we can use `delete` operator.

```js
delete user.age;
```

## Square brackets

```js
user['likes birds'];
```

### Computed preperties

```js
let comKey = 'age';
let user = {
  [comkey]: 'value',
};
```

Use dot to read a preperty, when property names are known and simple. Use square brackets, when property names are complex.

> __Reserved word are allowd as property names, except `__proto__`.__

## Property value shorhand

```js
function makeUser(name, age) {
  return {
    name,
    age,
  };
}
```

## Existence check

An object can access any property, if the property doesn't exist, the object will return `undefined`.

Also you can use `in` to check a property's existence.

```js
'key' in object
```

> __Using 'in' for properties that store `undefined`.__

## The "for...in" loop

```js
for (key in object) {

}
```

### Ordered like an object

Integer properties are sorted, others appear in creation order.

## Copying by reference

A variable stores not the object itself, but its "address of memory", in other words "a reference" to it.

### Comparison by reference

Only if two varivble reference the same object, they are equal.

### Const object

If we create a object variable like `const user = { name: 'vip' }`, we can change the properties of `user`, but we cannot change the value of `user`, like `user = {}`, it will occur an error.

## Cloning and merging, Object.assign

```js
Object.assign(dest, [src1, src2...])
```

It copies the properties of all objects `src1, ..., srcN` into `dest`.

If the source object have the same named property, it will be overwritten.

### Deep cloning 

If a property is a reference in a object, like `user`, the assign will just clone the reference, if you change the property of that `user`, while change the `user`'s property.

We can use `_.cloneDeep(obj)` which is in `lodash`.

## Summary

Like `Array` or `Date`, they don't have their own type, there belong to a single "Object" data type.
