# Symbol type

Object property keys may only be strings or symbols.

## Symbols

A "symbol" represents a unique identifier.

```js
// create a symbol
let id = Symbol('id');
```

Symbols are guaranteed to be unique. Even if we create many symbols with the same description, they are different values. The description is just a label that doesn't affect anything.

```js
let id1 = Symbol('id');
let id2 = Symbol('id');
id1 == id2; // false
```

### Symbols don't auto-conver to a string
If we want to show a symbol, use `symbol.toString()` or `symbol.description`;

## "Hidden" properties

We can use a symbol as a property key of a object in each script part. It can make each script part has its own property key with the same "name".

### Symbols in a literal

```js
let id = Symbol('id');

let user = {
  [id]: 1,
};
```

### Symbols are skipped by for...in

Due to "hiding symbolic properties", Object.keys() also ignores symbol properties, but Object.assign copies both string and symbol properties.


## Global symbols

Use `Symbol.for(key)` to read a same symbol. It guarantees that repeated access by the same name return exactly the same symbol.

The principle of it like `SingleInstance`, if the `key` already exist in registry, return it, otherwise, create it, store, and return.

Symbols inside the registry are called _global symbols_.

### Symbol.keyFor

The `Symbol.keyFor` returns a symbol name by a global symbol. it internally uses the global symbol registry to look up the key for the symbol.

## System symbols

Some well-known symbols
- Symbol.hasInstance
- Symbol.isConcatSreadable
- Symbol.iterator
- Symbol.toPrimitive
- ...and so on.

## `Object.getOwnPropertySymbols(obj)` and `Reflect.ownKyes(obj)`

Technically, symbols are not 100% hidden. The results of `Object.getOwnPropertySymbols(obj)` or `Reflect.ownKeys(obj)` will contain the symbol properties.