# Object methods, "this"

The real object in the world has some actions, it represented in JavaScript by function in properties.

## Method examples

```js
let user = {};

user.sayHi = function() {
  alert('Hello!');
};

user.sayHi();
```

A function that is the property of an object is called its _method_.

### Method shorhand

```js
user = {
  sayHi: function() {}
};

user = {
  sayHi() {

  }
};
```

## "this" in methods

```js
let user = {
  name:  "John",
  age: 30,

  sayHi() {
    alert(this.name);
  }
};


let user = {
  name: "John",
  age: 30,

  sayHi() {
    alert(user.name);
  }
};

let admin = user;
user = null;

admin.sayHi();
```

## "this" is not bound

In JavaScript, you can use `this` in any function. The value of `this` depends on the context.


The rule is simple: if `obj.f()` is called, then `this` is `obj` during the call of `f`.


### Calling without an object: `this == undefined`

```js
function sayHi() {
  alert(this);
}
```

In above case, `this` will be two values, `undefined` or `window`(global object). If we use `this` like above with `use strict`, we'll get `undefined`, otherwise, we'll get `window`.

Usually such call is a programming error. If there's `this` inside a function, it expects to be called in an object context.

### The consequences of unbound `this`

In JavaScript `this` is "free", its value is evaluated at call-time and does not depend on where the method was declared, but rather on what object is "before the dot".

## Internals: Reference Type

The dot '.' in user.hi() returns not a function, but a value of the special Reference Type. The Reference Type is a "specification type". We can not explicitly use it, but it is used internally by the language.

The value of Reference Type is `(base, name, strict)`, where:

- `base` is the object
- `name` is the property name
- `strict` is true if `use strict` is in effect.


The value of `this` is only passed the right way if the function is called drectly using a dot `obj.method()` or square brackets `obj['method']()` syntax(they do the same here).

## Arrow functions have no "this"

Arrow functions don't have their own `this`. If we reference `this` from such a function, it's taken from the outer "normal" function.

