# Constuctor, operator "new"

We often need to create many similar objects, it can be done using constructor functions and the `new` operator.

## Constructor function

It is regular functions, but has two conventions:

1. They are named with capital letter first.
2. They should be executed only with `new` operator.

The steps of `new`:

1. A new empty object is created and assigned to `this`.
2. The function body executes. Usually it modifies `this`, adds new properties to it.
3. Return the value of `this`.

It likes:
```js
function User(name) {
  // this = {};

  this.name = name;
  this.isAdmin = false;

  // return this;
}
```

The purpose of `contructors` is to implement reusable object creation code.

__Notice: Any function can be run with `new`, it will execute as above algorithm.__

### new function() {...}

If we have many lines of code all about creation of a single complex object, we can wrap them in constructor function, like this:

```js
let user = new function() {
  this.name = "John";
  this.isAdmin = false;

  // ...other code for user creation
  // maybe complex logic and statements
  // local variables etc
};
```

The constructor can't be called again, because it is not saved anywhere, just created and called. So this trick aims to encapsulate the code that constructs the single object, without future reuse.

> V: It means those complex codes are only use to create a single object, will not be reuse to process something.

## Constructor mode test: new.target

Inside a function, we can use `new.target` to check whether it was called with `new`. If a function is called with `new`, the value of  `new.target` equals the function, otherwise it's `undefined`.

We also can use `new.target` to let regular calls behave like `new`.Like this:

```js
function User(name) {
  if (new.target) {
    return new User(name);
  }

  this.name = name;
}
```

But not recommended to create a function like this way, it is a bit less obvious what's going on. with `new` we can know a object is created directyly.

## Return from constructors

The result of `return` in a constructor behaves with two rules:

1. If the result is an object, it will overwritten `this`.
2. If the result is a primitive, it will ignored, the result will be `this`.

### Omitting parentheses

If we call a constructor without arguments, we can omit parentheses, but it is not a "good style".

```js
let user = new User; // This will run correct
```

## Methods in constructor

We can add function properties in constructor, like we add properties.

```js
function User() {
  this.sayHi = function() {
    alert('Hello!');
  }
}
```