# Numbers

- Regular numbers
- BigInt

## More ways to write a number

```js
let billion = 1000000000;

// or

let billion = 1e9; // "e" specifying the zeroes count.

1e9 = 1 * 1000000000;

let ms = 0.000001;
let ms = 1e-6;
```

We can comprehend `e` like, if a positive number after `e`, add those number of `0` after the number before `e`. If a negative number after `e`, add those number of `0` before the number that before `e`, and add a dot to the right of the first `0`.

### Hex, binary and octal numbers

```js
let hex = OxFF;
let binary = 0b111111;
let octal = 0o377;
```

There ara only 3 numeral systems with such support. For others, we need use `parseInt`.

## toString(base)

`base` can vary from `2` to `36`. The default is `10`.

### Two dots to call a method

If we want to use method directly on a number, we need use `..`. If we call a method like `123.method()`, the dot `.` means decimal. So, we add two dots after a number, JavaScript will know it calls method. We also can call a method like `(123456).toString(36)`.


## Rounding

`Math.floor` - Rounds down: `3.1` becomes `3` and `-1.1` becomes `-2`.

`Math.ceil` - Rounds up: `3.1` becomes `4` and `-1.1` becomes `-1`.

`Math.round` - Rounds to the nearest integer: `3.1` becomes `3`, `3.6` becomes `4`, `-1.1` becomes `-1` and __`-1.6` becomes `-2`__.

`Math.trunc` __(not supported by Internet Explorer)__ - Removes anything after the decimal point without rounding: `3.1` becomes `3`, `-1.1` becomes `-1`.

### Round `n-th` digit

1. Multiply-and-divide
2. toFixed(n) - __The result of this function is string__

## Imprecise calculations

Internally, a number is represented in 64-bit format IEEE-754. It use 64 bits to store a number: 52 of them are used to store the digits, 11 of them store the position of the decimal point, and 1 bit is for the sign.

If a number is too big, it would overflow the 64-bit storage, potentially giving an infinity.

```js
alert(1e500); // Infinity
```

```js
0.1 + 0.2 == 0.3; // false

// because of the result of 0.1+0.2 is 0.30000000000000004
```

Becarefully. In binary system, some numbers cannot store exactly, but the numeric format IEEE-754 solves this by rounding to the nearest possible number. These rounding rules normally don't allow us to see that "tiny precision loss", but it exists.


We can use `toFixed` or `multiply/divide` to avoid `tiny precision loss`, but sometimes, `multiply/divide` approach reduces the error, but doesn't remove it totally.

### The funny thing
```js
alert(9999999999999999); // shows 10000000000000000
```

## Tests: isFinite and isNaN

- __isNaN(value)__
- __isFinite(value)__

Please note that an empty or a space-only string is treated as `0` in all numeric functions including `isFinite`.


### Compare with `Object.is`

1. __`NaN`__: Object.is(NaN, NaN) === true
2. __`0`__: Object.is(0, -0) === false. Due to the sign bit are different.
3. In all other cases, `Object.is(a, b)` is the same as `a === b`.

The `Object.is` is the internal algorithm when compare two values.

## parseInt and parseFloat

These two functions will read numbers from a string, until they can't. The `parseInt` will return integer, the `parseFloat` will return floating-point number.

If the left of the string is not a number, these will return `NaN`.

### The second argument of `parseInt(str, radix)`

The `radix` sepcifies the base of the numeral system. It should be 2~36.

## Other math functions

- __Math.random()__ - returns a random number from 0 to 1 (not including 1).

- __Math.max(a, b, c...)/Math.min(a, b, c...)__

- __Math.pow(n, power)__

