# Strings

There is only string in JavaScript, no character type.

The internally format for strings is always UTF-16, it is not tied to the page encoding.

## Quotes

Strings can be enclosed within either single quote, double quotes or backticks.

## Special characters (escape character)

__`\n`__

```js
let str1 = "Hello\nWorld"; // two lines using a "newline symbol"

// two lines using a normal newline and backticks
let str2 = `Hello
World`;

alert(str1 == str2); // true
```

|Character|Description|
|---|---|
|`\n`|New line|
|`\r`|Carriage return: not used alone. Windows text files use a combination of two characters \r\n to represent a line break.|
|`\'`,`\"`|Quotes|
|`\\`|Backslash|
|`\t`|Tab|
|`\b`,`\f`,`\v`|Backspace, Form Feed, Vertical Tab - kept for compatibility, not used nowadays.|
|`\xXXX`|Unicode character with the given hexadecimal unicode `XX`, e.g. `'\x7A'` is the same as `'z'`.|
|`\uXXXX`|A unicode symbol with the hex code XXXX in UTF-16 encoding, for instance \u00A9 – is a unicode for the copyright symbol ©. It must be exactly 4 hex digits.|
|`\u{X...XXXXXX}` (1 to 6 hex characters)|A unicode symbol with the given UTF-32 encoding. Some rare characters are encoded with two unicode symbols, taking 4 bytes. This way we can insert long codes.|

## String length

```js
alert(`My\n`.length); // 3
```

## Accessing characters

Use `[pos]` or call `str.charAt(pos)` to get character of a string at position `pos`.

There is a difference between them is `[]` returns `undefined`, `charAt` returns an empty string.

### `for...of`

We can use `for...of` to iterate ovar characters.

## Strings are immutable

```js
let str = 'Hi';

str[0] = 'h'; // error
```

## Changing the case

`toLowerCase()` and `toUpperCase()`

## Searching for a substring

### str.indexOf(substr, pos)

Searh `substr` in str, starting from the given postion `pos`. It will returns `-1` or the position where the `substr` starts.

### str.lastIndexOf(substr, pos)

### The bitwise NOT trick

```js
let str = "Widget";

if (~str.indexOf("Widget")) {
  alert( 'Found it!' ); // works
}
```

Just remember: `if (~str.indexOf(...))` reads as “if found”.

To be precise though, as big numbers are truncated to 32 bits by `~` operator, there exist other numbers that give `0`, the smallest is `~4294967295=0`. That makes such check is correct only if a string is not that long.

### includes(substr, pos), startsWith, endsWith

## Getting a substring

`substring`, `substr`, and `slice`.

- `str.slice(start [, end])`

This will return the part of the string from `start` to (but not including) `end`. 

If the `end` was not given, it will returns `substr` from `start` to the whole retain `str`.

Negative values for `start/end` are also possible. But `end` must greater than `start`.

- `str.substring(start [, end])`

This is almost same as `slice`, but it allows `start` to be greater than `end`. And negative arguments are (unlike slice) not supported, they are treated as `0`.

- `str.substr(start [, length])`

We can use this to get `substr` from `start` with `length`. And it allows us to use a negative `start`, it will calculate the `start` position from the right.

### Which one to choose?

Formally, `substr` has a minor drawback: it is described not in the core JavaScript. Non-browser environments may fail to support it.

## Comparing strings

All strings are encoded using UTF-16.

- `str.codePointAt(pos)`

- `String.fromCodePoint(code)`

### Correct comparisons

- `str.localeCompare(str2)` - `-1`, `0`, `1`.

## Internals, Unicode

### Surrogate pairs

All frequently used characters have 2-byte codes. Letters in most european languages, numbers, and even most hieroglyphs, have a 2-byte representation.

But 2 bytes only allow 65536 combinations and that’s not enough for every possible symbol. So rare symbols are encoded with a pair of 2-byte characters called “a surrogate pair”.

The length of such symbols is 2.

> V: Above contents means some symbols will encoded with a pair of 2-byte. If we use `.length` of these symbols, we'll get `2`.

### Diacritical marks and normalization

To support arbitrary compositions, UTF-16 allows us to use several unicode characters: the base character followed by one or many “mark” characters that “decorate” it.

```js
alert( 'S\u0307' ); // Ṡ

alert( 'S\u0307\u0323' ); // Ṩ

let s1 = 'S\u0307\u0323'; // Ṩ, S + dot above + dot below
let s2 = 'S\u0323\u0307'; // Ṩ, S + dot below + dot above

alert( `s1: ${s1}, s2: ${s2}` );

alert( s1 == s2 ); // false though the characters look identical (?!)
```

### `str.normalize()`

```js
alert( "S\u0307\u0323".normalize() == "S\u0323\u0307".normalize() ); // true

alert( "S\u0307\u0323".normalize().length ); // 1

alert( "S\u0307\u0323".normalize() == "\u1e68" ); // true
```

In reality, this is not always the case. The reason being that the symbol Ṩ is “common enough”, so UTF-16 creators included it in the main table and gave it the code.

## Other methods

- `str.trim()`
- `str.repeat(n)`
- …and more to be found in the [manual](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String).