# Data types

JavaScript is a dynamically typed programming languages. You can change a variable type any time, like string to number, or number to boolean.

JavaScript has eight basic data types.

## Number

The _number_ type represents both integer and floating point numbers.

Besides regular numbers, there are so-called "special numeric values" which also belong to _number_ data type: `Infinity`, `-Infinity` and `NaN`.

- `Infinity` represents the mathematical infinity. You can get it as a result of division by zero (like: ` 1 / 0`), or just reference it directly (`Infinity`).

- `NaN` represent a computational error. It is a result of an incorrect or an undefined mathematical operation. 

  It is stickly, Any further operation on `NaN` returns `NaN`.

> Mathematical operations are safe. At worst, we'll get `NaN` as a result.

## BigInt

In JavaScript, the "number" type cannot represent interger values larger than 2<sup>53</sup>. `BigInt` type was recently added to the language to represent integers of arbitraty length.

A `BigInt` is created by appending `n` to the end of an integer literal:
```js
const bigInt = 123213123n;
```

> __Compatability issues__
>
> Right now `BigInt` is supported in Firefox and Chrome, but not in Safari/IE/Edge.

## String

A string in JavaScript must be surrounded by quotes.like this:
```js
let q = "quotes";
let str = "double quotes";
let str1 = 'single quotes';
let str2 = `backticks ${q}`;
```

> JavaScript has no _character_ type, which is `char` in `Java` or `C` languages.

## Boolean

The boolean type has only two values: `true` and `false`.

## The "null" value

It's just a special value which represents "nothing", "empty" or "value unknown".

## The "undefined" value

It makes a type of its own, just like `null`.

It means "value is not assigned". If a variable is declared, but not assigned, then its value is `undefined`.

You can assign `undefined` to any variable, but not recommended. Use `null` instead of this operation. We use `undefined` to check if a variable has been assigned.

## Objects and Symbols

The `object` type is special.

Objects are used to store collections of data and more complex entities.

The `symbol` type is used to create unique identifiers for objects.

## The typeof operator

The `typeof` operator returns the type of the argument.

It supports two forms of syntax:

1. As an operator: `typeof x`.
2. As a function: `typeof(x)`.

The call of `typeof x` returns a string with the type name.

```js
typeof undefined // "undefined"

typeof 0 // "number"

typeof true // "boolean"

typeof "foo" // "string"

typeof Symbol("id") // "symbol"

// Math is a built-in object that provides mathematical operations.
typeof Math // "object"

// This is wrong. `null` is not an object, kept for compatibility.
// This is an error in the language.
typeof null // "object"

// There is no special "function" type in JavaScript. Functions belong to the object type. But `typeof` treats them differently.
// This is not quite correct, but very convenient in practice.
typeof alert // "function"
```